IN A SECRET WEEKEND RAID,
CAPTURED A SUSPECTED RINGLEADER
OF THE DEADLY 2012 ATTACK ON THE
AMERICAN CONSULATE IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ALSO AHEAD, PROTECTING THE
WONDERS OF THE DEEP BLUE SEA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ACTS TO CREATE
THE WORLD'S LARGEST MARINE
SANCTUARY, IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
PLUS, HOW ONE CALIFORNIA SCHOOL
DISTRICT IS TRYING TO PUSH
STUDENTS FACING HOMELESSNESS TO
ACADEMIC SUCCESS, AND A PATH TO
A BRIGHTER FUTURE.
>> WHEN EVERY TIME, I TRY TO
GIVE UP, I THINK ABOUT IT AND
I'M, YOU KNOW WHAT, NO, I'M NOT
GOING TO GIVE UP NOW THAT I'VE
ACCOMPLISHED SO MANY THINGS.
I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE UP.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: KENYA'S PRESIDENT
BLAMED LOCAL POLITICAL LEADERS
FOR TWO NIGHTS OF ATTACKS THAT
KILLED AT LEAST 60 PEOPLE ALONG
THE COAST.
THE SOMALI MILITANT GROUP "AL
SHABAB" HAD CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
KILLINGS NEAR THE TOURIST RESORT
ISLAND OF LAMU THAT TARGETED
NON-MUSLIMS.
BUT PRESIDENT UHURU KENYATTA, IN
A NATIONALLY TELEVISED ADDRESS,
POINTED THE FINGER AT PEOPLE HE
DESCRIBED AS "HATE-MONGERS"
WITHOUT DIRECTLY NAMING ANYONE.
>> THE ATTACK IN LAMU WAS WELL
PLANNED, ORCHESTRATED AND
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED ETHNIC
VIOLENCE AGAINST THE KENYAN
COMMUNITY WITH THE INTENTION OF
PROFILING AND EVICTING THEM FOR
POLITICAL REASONS.
THIS, THEREFORE, WAS NOT AN AL-
SHABAAB TERRORIST ATTACK.
>> Ifill: SECURITY WAS TIGHTENED
IN THE AREA TODAY, AS KENYAN
OFFICIALS SEARCHED FOR THE
ATTACKERS.
THEY ERECTED ROADBLOCKS, AND
ASKED PEOPLE TO COME FORWARD
WITH ANY INFORMATION.
AN EXPLOSION HIT THE MAIN
PIPELINE THAT CARRIES RUSSIAN
NATURAL GAS ACROSS UKRAINE TO
EUROPE, AND UKRAINIAN OFFILS
SAID IT MIGHT BE TERRORISM.
IT HAPPENED IN THE CENTER OF THE
COUNTRY, FAR FROM THE UNREST
WITH PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IN
THE EAST.
AND IT COMES A DAY AFTER RUSSIA
CUT OFF NATURAL GAS SUPPLIES TO
UKRAINE OVER A PRICING DISPUTE.
NEWLY RELEASED RECORDS SHOW
WORKERS AT THE PHOENIX VETERANS
AFFAIRS HOSPITAL RECEIVED ABOUT
$10 MILLION IN MERIT-BASED
BONUSES.
IT'S THE SAME HOSPITAL AN
INSPECTOR GENERAL'S REPORT FOUND
HAD EXCESSIVE WAIT TIMES AND
INAPPROPRIATE SCHEDULING OF
PATIENTS.
RECORDS SHOW THE BONUSES WENT TO
ABOUT 2,100 EMPLOYEES OVER THREE
YEARS AND EACH YEAR THE AMOUNT
INCREASED.
IN NEBRASKA, TWO FARMING TOWNS
WERE REELING TODAY AT
DESTRUCTION WROUGHT BY RARE
DOUBLE TORNADOES.
THE TWIN TWISTERS RIPPED THROUGH
THE SMALL TOWNS OF STANTON AND
PILGER YESTERDAY AFTERNOON.
THEY TOUCHED DOWN ROUGHLY A MILE
FROM ONE ANOTHER, BEFORE
MERGING.
A FIVE-YEAR-OLD GIRL WAS KILLED
AND 18 OTHERS WERE INJURED.
PILGER WAS NEARLY 75% DESTROYED.
THE COUNTY SHERIFF WARNED IT
WILL TAKE A LONG TIME TO
REBUILD.
>> THE BUSINESS DISTRICT IS
GONE.
CITY HALL IS GONE.
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT IS
DESTROYED.
PUBLIC LIBRARY HAS SEVERE
DAMAGE.
WE HAVE NUMEROUS HOUSES THAT ARE
JUST GONE AND LOTS AND LOTS OF
HOUSES WITH STRUCTURAL DAMAGE
THAT WILL TAKE 100% REPAIR WHICH
MEANS THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
TEAR THEM DOWN AND START FROM
SCRATCH.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED
A DISASTER DECLARATION TODAY TO
SEND FEDERAL FUNDS AND RESOURCES
TO THE AREA.
>> Ifill: IN WORLD CUP SOCCER
NEWS, U.S. FANS WERE STILL
CELEBRATING LAST NIGHT'S FIRST
ROUND WIN OVER GHANA.
TEAM CAPTAIN CLINT DEMPSEY
SCORED 30 SECONDS INTO THE GAME,
MAKING IT THE FIFTH QUICKEST
GOAL IN WORLD CUP HISTORY.
AFTER GHANA TIED THE SCORE, JOHN
BROOKS BOUNCED A HEADER IN TO
WIN THE MATCH.
NEXT UP FOR THE U.S. IS PORTUGAL
ON SUNDAY.
>> Ifill: CURATORS AND
SCIENTISTS HAVE DISCOVERED ONE
OF PABLO PICASSO'S  FIRST
MASTERPIECES "THE BLUE ROOM,"
HAS HAD A SECRET ALL THESE
YEARS.
A SECOND PAINTING IS CONCEALED
BEHIND THE FIRST AND THAT ONE
HOLDS A SECRET OF ITS OWN: THE
IDENTITY OF THE BOW-TIED MAN IN
THE PORTRAIT.
THE 1901 PAINTING HAS BEEN A
PART OF THE PHILLIPS COLLECTION
IN WASHINGTON SINCE 1927.
MUSEUM EXPERTS USED INFRARED AND
X-RAY TECHNOLOGY TO FIND AND
REFINE THE HIDDEN PORTRAIT OVER
THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
STOCKS EXTENDED THEIR GAINS ON
WALL STREET TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED 27 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,808.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 16 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,337.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 GAINED FOUR
POINTS TO CLOSE AT NEARLY 1,942.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
U.S. COMMANDOS NAB A SUSPECTED
RINGLEADER OF THE BENGHAZI
ATTACK.
WHAT IRAQ'S INSURGENCY MEANS FOR
ITS NEIGHBORS.
PROTECTING THE WONDERS OF THE
PACIFIC OCEAN.
THE CHALLENGE OF BEING HOMELESS
IN HIGH SCHOOL.
AND A LONG-TIME REPORTER'S NEW
TAKE ON PRESIDENT NIXON, AND HIS
LIFE AFTER WATERGATE.
>> Ifill: NEARLY TWO YEARS AFTER
THE ATTACKS IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA,
THE U.S. HAS CAPTURED ONE OF THE
SUSPECTED RING LEADERS IN THE
OFFENSIVE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HERALDED THE
MISSION THIS AFTERNOON AT AN
EVENT IN PITTSBURGH, SHORTLY
AFTER THE NEWS BROKE.
>> WE ARE ALL AWARE OF THE
TRAGEDY THAT HAPPENED IN
BENGHAZI WHERE FOUR AMERICANS
INCLUDING OUR AMBASSADOR THERE
CLINT STEPHENS WAS KILLED IN AN
I AC ON A CONSULATE OFFICE
THERE.
I SAID AT THE TIME MY ABSOLUTE
COMMITMENT WAS TO MAKE SURE WE
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE THOSE WHO HAD
BEEN RESPONSIBLE, AND YESTERDAY
OUR SPECIAL FORCES SHOWING
INCREDIBLE COURAGE AND PRECISION
WERE ABLE TO CAPTURE AN
INDIVIDUAL, ABU KHATTALA, WHO IS
ALLEGED TO HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE
MASTERMINDS OF THE ATTACK.
(APPLAUSE)
AND HE IS NOW BEING TRANSPORTED
BACK TO THE UNITED STATES.
I SAY THAT FIRST OF ALL BECAUSE,
YOU KNOW, WE CONTINUE TO THINK
ABOUT AND PRAY FOR THE FAMILIES
OF THOSE WHO WERE KILLED DURING
THAT TERRIBLE ATTACK, BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
US TO SEND A MESSAGE TO THE
WORLD THAT WHEN AMERICANS ARE
ATTACKED, NO MATTER HOW LONG IT
TAKES, WE WILL FIND THOSE
RESPONSIBLE AND BRING THEM TO
JUSTICE.
>> Ifill: JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE
ON THE DRAMATIC CAPTURE.
>> Brown: THE SPECIAL FORCES
TEAM APPREHENDED ABU KHATTALA,
WITH THE HELP OF THE F.B.I. IN A
SECRET RAID OUTSIDE BENGHAZI.
HE'S THE FIRST ACCUSED
PERPETRATOR OF THE 2012 ATTACKS
TO BE NABBED AND TAKEN INTO U.S.
CUSTODY.
JOINING ME NOW IS THE REPORTER
WHO FIRST BROKE THIS STORY:
KAREN DEYOUNG OF THE WASHINGTON
POST.
KAREN, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HOW MUCH DETAIL DO WE KNOW AT
THIS POINT ABOUT THE OPERATION
THAT LED TO HIS CAPTURE?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW A WHOLE
LOT.
WE KNOW THAT IT OCCURRED ON
SUNDAY AFTERNOON WASHINGTON
TIME, THAT IT WAS, ACCORDING TO
THE PENTAGON, MONTHS IN THE
PLANNING, THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
APPROVED IT ON FRIDAY, AND THAT
IT WAS PRETTY MUCH CARRIED OUT
WITHOUT ANY VIOLENCE AT ALL.
NOBODY WAS HURT, AND HE WAS VERY
QUICKLYROM HIS VILLA
IN THE SOUTH OF BENGHAZI.
>> AND DONE WITH OR WITHOUT THE
COOPERATION OR COORDINATIONHTHE?
>> THE LIBYANS WERE NOT INFORMED
PRIOR TO THIS OPERATION.
OF COURSE, THERE HAVE BEEN
PREVIOUS OPERATIONS IN LIBYA,
NOTABLY ONE LAST OCTOBER WHERE
AN AL QUAIDA SUSPECT WAS
ABDUCTED, AND AT THAT TIME THE
ADMINISTRATION INFORMED LIBYA
WHAT IT WAS ALSO INTERESTED IN
GETTING ABU KHATTALA, THEY DID
NOT GET HIM AT THAT POINT AND
THEY DID NOT TELL THEM, AGAIN.
THEIR WAS, IT'S NO
SURPRISE TO US, THAT WE HAVE
BEEN TRYING TO GET HIM.
>> Brown: WHERE IS ABU
KHATTALA NOW?
ARE WE TRYING TO HIMRE
ARRAIGN HIM TO STAND TRIAL?
>> HE IS IN A SECURE LOCATION
OUTSIDE LIBYA.
THAT'S ALL THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS SAID.
PREVIOUSLY WHEN INCIDENTS LIKE
THIS HAVE HAPPENED, THEY HAVE
TAKEN PEOPLE AND PUT THEM ABOARD
U.S. WARSHIPS FOR INITIAL
INTERROGATION.
THERE HAS BEEN A CRIMINAL
COMPLAINT FILED AGAINST HIM IN
DISTRICT COURT IN THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
YOU KNOW, MOST OF THESE CASES
HAVE BEEN TRIED IN EUROPE, BUT
THIS ONE, I THINK, WILL BE THE
FIRST TERRORIST TRIAL, BIG-TIME
TERRORIST TRIAL IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. AND, SO, HE
WOULD BE BROUGHT HERE SHORTLY IS
THE ONLY TERM THEY WILL USE TO
BE ARRAIGNED AND ULTIMATELY
STAND TRIAL.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE STRANGER
ASPECTS OF ALL OF THIS IS THE
REPORTERS HAVE SAT DOWN WITH HIM
IN THE PAST TWO YEARS WITH ABU
KHATTALA SINCE THE BENGHAZI
ATTACKS.
THERE WAS SOME SENSE HE WAS
HIDING IN PLAIN SIGHT.
WHAT'S THE EXPLANATION AT THIS
POINT FOR WHY IT TOOK SO LONG TO
CAPTURE HIM?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY, INITIALLY,
RIGHT AFTER THE SEPTEMBER 2012
ATTACKS IN BENGHAZI, FOR SEVERAL
MONTHS AFTERWARDS AND INTO THE
BEGINNING OF LAST YEAR, HE WAS
FAIRLY FREQUENTLY INTERVIEWED BY
AMERICAN, BRITISH AND OTHER
MEDIA IN BENGHAZI.
THE ACTUAL CRIMINAL COMPLAINT
AGAINST HIM WAS NOT FILED UNTIL
LAST SUMMER, AND THE EXPLANATION
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION HAS FOR
WHY IS IT SO EASY FOR THEM TO
FIND HIM MORE THAN A YEAR AGO,
AND NOT THAT IT'S NECESSARILY
DIFFICULT TO KNOW WHERE HE WAS,
BUT TO ARRANGE THE KIND OF RAID
WHERE THEY CARRIED OUT WHERE NO
ONE WAS HURT, WHERE THERE WAS NO
KNOWN SURPRI THEY COULD
GET QUICKLY IN AND OUT.
THAT'S THEIR STORY AND THEY'RE
STICKING TO IT.
>> Brown: AND WHAT ABOUT THE
EVIDENCE THAT LINKS HIM TO WHAT
HAPPENED IN BENGHAZI?
WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT SAY
ABOUT HOW SOLID IT IS?
THIS IS A WAY FOR YOU TO
BACKTRACK A LITTLE AND REMIND US
WHO HE IS IN CONNECTIONS TO
VARIOUS GROUPS.
>> HE IS THE HEAD OF THE
BENGHAZI BRANCH OF ANSAR
AL-SHARIA, W IS A MILITANT
GROUP FORMED AFTER THE FALL OF
GADHAFI.
ABU KHATTALA WAS IMPRISONED BY
MUAMMAR GADHAFI FOR MANY YEARS.
IN THE WITNESS STATEMENTS
COMPILED AFTER THE BENGHAZI
ATTACKS, THERE WERE MEMBERS OF
ANSAR al-SHARIA, THERE WERE
SOME INDICATIONS HE, IN SOME
INTERVIEWS, ACKNOWLEDGED HE WAS
THERE ALTHOUGH HE USUALLY SAID
THAT HE CAME UPON THE ASSAULT OF
THE DIM PACT COMPOUND WHEN IT
WAS ALMOST OVER BUT DID NOT
PARTS AT A TIME IN THE INITIAL
ASSAULT.
THEY ATHEY HAVE WITNESSES AND,
AGAIN, THEY DO HAVE SOME VIDEO.
>> NOW, THE U.S. AUTHORITIES, I
GATHER, THEY THINK THAT -- WELL,
THEY FAIRLY BELIEVE OTHERS WERE
INVOLVED IN THE ATTACKS.
SO ARE THEY STILL IN PURSUIT IN
WHAT'S THE SITUATION THERE?
>> THEY'RE IN THIS CRIMINAL
COMPLAINT THAT WAS FILED UNDER
SEAL LAST SUMMER HERE IN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
THERE WERE AS MANY AS A DOZEN
OTHERS LISTED AS WANTED FOR THE
SAME ATTACKS.
THEY SAY THEY'RE STILL AFTER
THEM.
THEY HAVEN'T CAUGHT THEM YET.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT ALL THEIR
NAMES ARE BUT THAT THE
INVESTIGATION IS STILL ONGOING
AND THAT THEY'RE STILL TRYING TO
CAPTURE THEM.
>> EVERYTHING, OF COURSE,
RELATED TO BENGHAZI HAS BEEN A
MAJOR POLITICAL ISSUE, AND I SAW
SOME OF THE REACTION RIGHT AWAY
TODAY.
MITCH MCCONNELL SAYING THAT THE
SUSPECT NEEDS TO BE INTERROGATED
EXTENSIVELY.
HE SAID WE SHOULD NOT READ LIMB
HIS RIGHTS AND GET HIM A LAWYER.
YOU SAID EARLIER THE INTENT IS
TO BRING HIM TO TRIAL IN
NEW YORK, PERHAPS.
>> IN WASHINGTON.
SO THIS IS GOING TO CONTINUE,
CLEARLY, IN AMERICAN POLITICS?
>> WELL, AND IT'S INTERESTING,
THE VERY FIRST REACTION THIS
MORNING IN THE STORY BOOK WAS,
GOOD FOR YOU, AMERICAN MILITARY,
YOU DID A GREAT JOB, BUT VERY
QUICKLY BECAME DIVIDED ALONG
PART OF THE MINDS WITH MANY
REPUBLICANS SAYING WE HOPE
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO TREAT HIM AS
A NORMAL CRIMINAL DEFENDANT.
THIS IS A LINE THAT IS VERY
FAMILIAR IN THESE KINDS OF CASEO
GUANTANAMO, WHICH, OF COURSE,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS NOT
GOING TO DO.
THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING TO CLOSE
GUANTANAMO AND REFUSED TO PUT IN
AN ADDITION   THERE.
THEY SAY THEY'VE HAD MUCH BETTER
LUCK WITH CIVILIAN CRIMINAL
TRIALS AND THERE HAVE BEEN MANY
OF THEM AND MANY CONVICTIONS AND
MANY PEOPLE ARE IN JAIL, WHILE
THE TRACK RECORD OF THE
COMMISSION IN GUANTANAMO IS NOT
GO TERMS OF COMMISSIONS AND
A LOT OF PEOPLE THERE THEY DON'T
KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH BECAUSE
THEY CAN'T CONVICT THEM.
>> Brown: ALL THAT TO UNFOLD
IN COMING MONTHS.
KAREN DEYOUNG, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
EXPECTED TO MEET WITH
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS ON IRAQ
TOMORROW.
AT THE SAME TIME, A STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN SAID SHE
DOESN'T EXPECT THE U.S. AND IRAN
TO HAVE ANY MORE DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT IRAQ ON THE SIDELINES OF
NUCLEAR TALKS IN VIENNA.
IN BAGHDAD, 10 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND DOZENS INJURED IN A
CAR BOMBING IN A SHI'ITE
NEIGHBORHOOD TODAY.
AND THE COUNTRY'S PRIME MINISTER
DISMISSED FOUR OF HIS TOP
SECURITY OFFICERS AFTER THE CITY
OF MOSUL FELL TO INSURGENT
FORCES LAST WEEK.
IN THE NORTH, IT APPEARS SHIA
MILITIA ARE BEGINNING TO FILL
THE VOID LEFT BY FLEEING
GOVERNMENT FORCES.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS IS THERE.
>> Reporter: THESE SHIA
MILITIAMEN ARE CHANTING THAT
THEY ARE ANSWERING THEIR
COUNTRY'S CALL.
SCORES OF THEM FILMED APPARENTLY
HEADED TO TAL AFAR TODAY.
THE ARMY SEEMINGLY DESERTED THEM
IN THE FACE OF SUNNI EXTREMISTS.
SO NOW IT'S GUERRILLA WARFARE ON
BOTH SIDES.
THEIR CITY FELL TO ISIS
YESTERDAY.
BUT IT WAS FEAR OF GOVERNMENT
AIRSTRIKES WHICH SENT THIS
FAMILY PACKING, LEAVING HOME AT
3:00 THIS MORNING.
TAL AFAR IS A CITY OF 200,000
PEOPLE.
NOW, UNKNOWN NUMBERS OF SUNNI
AND SHIA ARE FLEEING IT, JOINING
THOSE STILL ESCAPING FROM MOSUL,
IRAQ'S SECOND BIGGEST CITY,
WHICH FELL A WEEK AGO.
IN MOSUL ITSELF, RESIDENTS
FILMED ISIS MILITANTS AS IF THEY
WERE A TOURIST ATTRACTION.
EVEN IF SOME OF THE JIHADISTS
ARE PROBABLY FOREIGNERS, AND
CONFLICT TOURISTS THEMSELVES.
THE BUSTLE OF EVERYDAY LIFE
HERE, SHOWN PERHAPS AS A
DELIBERATE CONTRAST WITH THE
EXECUTIONS AND ATROCITIES OF
RECENT DAYS.
THOUGH THIS ISIS FIGHTER IS
ORDERING A WOMAN TO COVER HER
HEAD UP.
AT THIS CHECKPOINT NEAR THE
CITY, IBRAHIM SALIM TOLD US HE
COULDN'T BE SURE WHICH SIDE IN
THIS CONFLICT FRIGHTENED HIM THE
MOST.
WERE YOU FRIGHTENED OF THEM?
BECAUSE THEY ARE RADICAL
JIHADISTS?
>> IT'S REALLY, YOU DON'T KNOW
WHO'S YOUR ENEMY.
YOU DON'T KNOW IF THE GOVERNMENT
OF IRAQ OR YOU DON'T KNOW IF
THAT, OR THE JIHADIS IS YOUR
ENEMY.
YOU DON'T KNOW.
EVERYBODY LIKE, IN THE BEGINNING
OF TWO DAYS, THERE WAS BOMBING
THE CIVILIANS.
>> Reporter: BY WHOM?
>> YOU DON'T KNOW!
JUST THE BOMB FELL DOWN ON THE
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: MERGING INTO THIS
CROWD, WE FOUND SOLDIERS FROM
TAL AFAR NOW SEEKING SANCTUARY
IN THE KUH
ABANDONING THEIR POSTS IN
FIGHTING YESTERDAY.
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS WERE DRIVEN
OUT OF TAL AFAR BY THE AMERICAN
ARMY.
BUT THE STORY, WHICH SEEMS TO BE
EMERGING FROM THESE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE FLED FROM THE CONFLICT
TODAY, IS THE ARMY THAT THE
AMERICANS TRAINED GAVE UP.
IT RAN AWAY.
WITHOUT PUTTING UP TOO MUCH OF A
FIGHT.
THIS SOLDIER FEARED REPRISALS
FROM EITHER SIDE.
HE SAID HE HAD SURRENDERED TO
ISIS AFTER HIS COMMANDERS
ESCAPED FIRST.
>> Reporter: DID THE AMERICANS
TRAIN YOU THOUGH TO FIGHT?
>> ( translated ): YES, WE WERE
TRAINED BY THE AMERICANS FOR
THREE TO EIGHT MONTHS.
BUT THE ISSUE WAS, WE'D RAN OUT
OF AMMUNITION.
OTHERWISE, WE WOULD'VE RESISTED.
>> Reporter: HOW MANY DEAD
PEOPLE DID YOU SEE WITH YOUR OWN
EYES?
>> ( translated ): I HAVE SEEN
MANY DEAD PEOPLE.
BETWEEN 100-150.
TWO OF MY FRIENDS WERE KILLED.
WE HAVEN'T FOUND THEIR BODIES
YET.
>> Reporter: WE CAN'T VERIFY
THAT FIGURE.
ANOTHER SOLDIER TOLD US HE
FEARED THE SUNNIS OF ISIS WOULD
DISFIGURE OR EXECUTE HIM IF THEY
FOUND OUT HE WAS A SHIA FROM THE
SOUTH.
>> ( translated ): IT WAS VERY
FRIGHTENING COMING THROUGH THE
ISIS CHECKPOINT.
ISIS ARE TERRORISTS.
IT'S TERRIFYING.
THEY'RE AGAINST CIVILIANS, AND
THEY ARE AGAINST THE ARMY.
>> Reporter: TONIGHT, ISIS
LAUNCHED A CHILLING, NEW GLOBAL
RECRUITMENT VIDEO, FOR WHAT IT
CALLED THE DECISIVE BATTLE.
HUNGRY LIONS ARE BEING
UNLEASHED, IT SAID.
CALLING THIS A JIHAD AGAINST
SHIITES.
IT'S STATED TARGET, BAGHDAD.
>> Ifill: LATE  E
BAGHDAD, REUTERS REPORTS THAT
IRAQ'S SHI'ITE AND SUNNI
POLITICAL LEADERS, INCLUDING THE
PRIME MINISTER, MADE A JOINT
CALL FOR NATIONAL UNITY.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK
AT WHAT THE IRAQ CRISIS, AND
IT'S SECTARIAN DIVISIONS, MEANS
FOR AN ALREADY VOLATILE REGION.
I'M JOINED BY HISHAM MELHEM,
WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF OF
AL-ARABIYA NEWS CHANNEL.
AND MARY-JANE DEEB, CHIEF OF THE
AFRICAN AND MIDDLE EASTERN
DIVISION OF THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS.
THE VIEWS SHE EXPRESS HERE ARE
HER OWN.
WHAT IS THE DANGEROUS, HISHAM,
THAT THE SUNNI SHIITES WE'VE
BECOME FAMILIAR WITH NOW IS
GOING TO SPREAD BEYOND THE
BORDERS OF IRAQ THROUGHOUT THE
REGION?
>> WHAT WE SEE NOW IN TERMS OF
SHIA-SUNNI RIVALRY IS
UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF
ISLAM.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE SEE
BLOOD LETTING ON THE CONTINUE CL
FRONT FROM IRAQ TO SYRIA TO
LEBANON AND BAHRAIN AND LEBANON.
THIS HAS NEVER HAPPENED IN
MODERN HISTORY, ANYTIME
THROUGHOUT THE HISTORY OF
ISLAMIC AND THAT'S WHY IT'S
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
YOU ADD TWO COUNTRIES RALLYING
ALONG ETHNIC LINES, SYRIA AND
IRAQ, AND REFUGEE PROBLEMS IN
LEBANON AND JORDAN, YOU ADD TO
THAT LEADERSHIP IN THE REGION
AND EUROPE, WHICH MAKES
LEADERSHIP IMPORTANT,
UNFORTUNATELY LEADERSHIP WAS
ABSENT IN THE LAST TWO YEARS.
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T DO MUCH ABOUT
THE RISE OF ISIS IN THE
SO-CALLED ISLAMIC STATE, WE
DIDN'T DO MUCH TO CHECK THE
POWER IN SYRIA, ALLOW THEM IN
THAT ENVIRONMENT, WE SEE THEM
MOVING FROM SYRIA TO IRAQ AND WE
HAVE TWO MAJOR NON-STATE ACTORS,
HEZBOLLAH AND ISIS, THROWING
THEIR WEIGHT AROUND THE REGION
AND ABLGHT ACTING LIKE STATES.
>> Ifill: SO MANY SAY I.S.I.L.
IS SCARIER THAN ISIS.
I WANT TO ASK YOU, MARY JANE
DEEB, ABOUT THIS CONFLICT HISHAM
DESCRIBES, IS IT BECOMING
REGIONAL OR ALREADY IS?
>> IT ALREADY IS IN MANY BECAUSE
BECAUSE THE IDEA OF ISIS, THE
ISLAMIC GROUP, IS NOT TO CHANGE
A GOVERNMENT WITHIN THAT
PARTICULAR REASON, IT IS TO
CHANGE THE REGION AS A WHOLE TO
TURN IT INTO AN ISLAMIC STATE.
SO WE SEE THE SITUATION
DEVELOPING ALONG A NUMBER OF
LINES.
NOT ONLY IS IT SECTARIAN,
SUNNI-SHIITE, BUT I THINK IT IS
ALSO AN ACTOR THAT WE DO NOT
SEE, AND THAT IS, I WOULD SAY,
THE OLD ARMY, ARMY.
THE ARMY THAT IS BEING BROKEN UP
AND SENT BACK HOME.
AND THAT MAY BE THE BACKGROUND,
THE BACKSTAGE, IF YOU WANT, OF
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN IRAQ TODAY.
>> THERE WAS A LOT OF ATTENTION
PAID IN VIENNA THIS WEEK WHERE
THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION ON THE
SIDELINES BETWEEN THE U.S. AND
IRAN.
HOW CRITICAL A PLAYER IS OR
SHOULD IRAN BE IN THE MIDDLE OF
ALL THIS?
>> IRANS ON THE SIDE WHICH IS
WHY PRODUCTION POWIER IN SYRIA
AND IRAQ, HIS BLAH IS SECURING
THE COUNTRIES OF THE GULF AND
TURKEY.
THESE ARE SUNNI POWERS,
EXTREMELY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
RISE OF THE IRANIAN VOTE AND
WILL BE MORE CONCERNED BECAUSE
OF SIGNS THE UNITED STATES IS
WILLING TO DISCUSS IRAQ WITH
IRAN AND, IN FACT, EVEN JOHN
KERRY YESTERDAY SAID IT IN A
FLEETING MOMENT THAT YOU MAY BE
WILLING TO COLLABORATE
MILITARILY.
>> Ifill: AND HE PULLED BACK.
HE PULLED BACK, OF COURSE.
THIS IS THE FIRST TAME IN
AMERICAN HISTORY WHERE THEY
TALK.
THE POINT IS IRAN'S INFLUENCE IN
IRAQ ARE CALLING ON THE UNITED
STATES TO COLLABORATE
MILITARILY.
THIS IS THE SAME IRAN
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEATHS OF
HUNDREDS OF HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF CONSERVATIVES IN IRAQ IN THE
LAST TEN YEARS.
>> Ifill: ANY COLLABORATION
THAT MIGHT EXIST, WHETHER
DIPLOMATIC OR OTHERWISE WITH
IRAN, DOES THAT PUT ON NUCLEAR
TALKS?
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE MAJOR
DANGERS IS IF WE START TALKING
NOW ABOUT WHAT IS HAPPENING IN
IRAQ, WE ARE STOPPING THE
DISCUSSION UNDER -- ON THE
NUCLEAR ISSUE, AND THAT IS OF
IMMENSE IMPORTANCE BECAUSE IRAN
CAN PLAY THE GAME OF, YES, LET'S
MOVE AND DO THIS.
ANYWAY, CONTINUE BUILDING UP
THIS NUCLEAR FORCES.
>> Ifill: THE OTHER COUNTRY
YOU MENTIONED INCLUDING -- ALSO
INCLUDING LIBYA AND EGYPT AND
TURKEY, THEY HAVE DIFFERENT SKIN
IN THIS GAME, DIFFERENT CONCERNS
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS IN IRAQ.
ANY AGREEMENT ON A SOLUTION?
>> I WOULD SAY IT WAS ABOUT
IRANIAN INFLUENCE, PRIMARILY,
AND WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
UNITED STATES.
BUT OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE THESE
AGENDAS AND A NUMBER OF
COUNTRIES WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
SUNNIES COME BACK TO POWER IN
IRAQ AND SAY TO THE -- I WOULD
SAY THAT COUNTRIES LIKE EGYPT,
FOR INSTANCE, WOULD LIKE TO SEE
A RETURN AND A STRENGTHENING OF
SUNNIS IN THE REGION.
>> Ifill: WOULD THESE
COUNTRIES PERHAPS LIKE TO SEE
IRAQ PARTITIONED?
>> I THINK WE ARE WATCHING THE
DEATH OF A COUNTRY.
IT'S FALLING APART ALONG
SECTARIAN-ETHNIC LINES AND THE
KURDS I WILL ARGUE WILL GO THEIR
SEPARATE WAY, MAYBE THE SHIA
WILL GO THEIR SEPARATE WAY IN
THE SOUTH AND LEAVE THE SUNNIS
IN THE CENTER.
>> Ifill: SOMETHING JOE BIDEN
TALKED ABOUT YEARS AGO.
>> EXACTLY BUT NOT THROUGH THIS
KIND OF VIOLENCE.
THE SUNNIS WILL BE SULLEN AND
ANGRY AND ARMED AND THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO ACCEPT THE SITUATION
LIKE THAT.
>> Ifill: BUT ISIS WILL
CONTINUE TO EXIST EVEN IF THIS
DEAL EXISTS.
BUT THE CE COMES BECAUSE ISIS
HAS ACCESS TO A LOT OF RESOURCES
AND MONEY AND PART OF THE
QUESTION IS WHO IS GIVING THEM
THIS MONEY?
ANY OF THESE REGIONAL ACTORS
HELP TO SUPPORT --
>> IT IS VERY POSSIBLE THAT SOME
OF THEM ARE SUPPORTING, THAT
MONEY IS COMING IN.
IT COULD BE INDIVIDUAL, IT COULD
BE FOUNDATIONS, IT COULD BE --
IT COULD EVEN BE GOVERNMENTS.
>> AND THEY HAVE HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS --
>> ATTACKING OTHERS, ATTACKING
BANKS, SHOPS, ECONOMIC
ST'S LIKE THE MAFIA.
BUT I THINK THERE IS MORE SEROUS
FROM THESE GROUPS.
>> YOU NEED A POLITICAL SOLUTION
AND ALLIES TO FIGHT ISIS.
THAT IS OUR MAIN STAKE IN SYRIA,
WE DID NOT INVEST IN THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION AND TAKE ON THESE
GROUPS AND NIP IT IN THE BUD.
>> Ifill: WHO IS al-MMALIKI'S
FRIEND IN THIS?
>> THAT'S DANGEROUS BECAUSE IRAN
SO IS THERE PRESSUREE IN.
FROM ANY OF THE NATIONS OR US
FOR MALIKI TO MOVE ASSAYED?
>> I THINK THE U.S. SHOULD HAVE
EXERCISED THEIR OPTION A WHILE
AGO.
THE SANG SAME THING WITH THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE OWES HIS POSITION TO
AMERICANS AND THEY DIDN'T ACT AS
SUCH.
>> Ifill: FINAL WORLD.
WHO WILL TAKE HIS PLACE.
AFTER ALL, HE WAS ELECTED, SO
WHO ARE WE EXPECTING TO TAKE
OVER?
IT HAS TO BE, I SUPPOSE, A
COALITION THAT NEEDS TO BE
PULLED TOGETHER AND I DON'T KNOW
WHO CAN DO THAT.
>> THE SAME DILEMMA,
PERIODICALLY REPLACES PEOPLE.
QUITE REMARKABLE.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT USED THE
POWER OF EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY
AGAIN TODAY, THIS TIME TO
PROTECT A WIDER EXPANSE OF THE
CENTRAL PACIFIC OCEAN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY, AND
WHY SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THE AREA
NEEDS SPECIAL SAFEGUARDS.
>> IF WE DRAIN OUR OCEANS OF
THEIR RESOURCES WE WON'T JUST BE
SQUANDERING ONE OF HUMANITY'S
GREATEST TREASURES WE'LL BE
CUTTING OFF ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MAJOR SOURCES OF FOOD AND
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED HIS PLAN TO CREATE THE
WORLD'S LARGEST MARINE PRESERVE
IN A VIDEO MESSAGE DELIVERED
TODAY AT A STATE DEPARTMENT
CONFERENCE ON OCEANS
CONSERVATION.
>> AND LIKE PRESIDENTS CLINTON
AND BUSH BEFORE ME I'M GOING TO
USE MY AUTHORITY AS PRESIDENT TO
PROTECT SOME OF OUR MOST
PRECIOUS MARINE LANDSCAPES JUST
LIKE WE DO FOR MOUNTAINS AND
RIVERS AND FORESTS.
>> Brown: TODAY'S DIRECTIVE
WOULD ADD TO U.S. MARINE
MONUMENTS IN THE CENTRAL PACIFIC
DESIGNATED BY PRESIDENT GEORGE
W. BUSH DURING HIS
ADMINISTRATION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PROPOSAL COULD
EXPAND PROTECTION AREAS AROUND
SEVEN ISLANDS AND ATOLLS IN THE
U.S. TERRITORIAL WATERS FROM 50
MILES TO 200.
AND WHILE FINAL BOUNDARIES HAVE
NOT YET BEEN DETERMINED, THE
EXECUTIVE STEP WOULD EXPAND THE
SPARSELY INHABITED "PACIFIC
REMOTE ISLANDS MARINE NATIONAL
MONUMENT" FROM ALMOST 87,000
SQUARE MILES TO MORE THAN
780,000.
THAT WOULD PUT DRILLING, FISHING
AND OTHER ACTIVITIES IN THE NEW
PRESERVES OFF LIMITS.
SOME REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS, LIKE
HOUSE NATURAL RESOURCES
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DOC HASTINGS
CLAIMED THE MOVE WAS AN
OVERREACH OF PRESIDENTIAL
POWERS.
IN A STATEMENT, HE SAID:
"THIS IS YET ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
HOW AN IMPERIAL PRESIDENT IS
INTENT ON TAKING UNILATERAL
ACTION, BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, TO
IMPOSE NEW REGULATIONS AND
LAYERS OF RESTRICTIVE RED-TAPE."
OCEANS, LIKE OUR FEDERAL LANDS,
ARE INTENDED TO BE MULTIPLE-USE
AND OPEN FOR A WIDE RANGE OF
INCLUDES FISHING, RECREATION,
CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY
PRODUCTION."
THE PRESIDENT ALSO TODAY ISSUED
A MEMORANDUM TO FEDERAL AGENCIES
TODAY TO DEVELOP A PROGRAM THAT
WOULD ENSURE ALL SEAFOOD SOLD IN
THE U.S. IS BOTH SUSTAINABLE AND
TRACEABLE.
IN THE MEANTIME,
ANY EXPANSION OF THE PACIFIC
MARINE RESERVES WILL BE
IMPLEMENTED LATER THIS YEAR.
AFTER A PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.
>> Brown: THE U.S. CONTROLS MORE
THAN 13% OF ALL OCEAN AREAS
OVERSEEN BY COUNTRIES, AND
TODAY'S ACTION WAS BEING WATCHED
BY INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS, AS
WELL AS ON CAPITOL HILL.
WE'RE JOINED BY: JOSHUA REICHERT
IS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS WHERE
HE DIRECTS ENVIRONMENTAL
INITIATIVES.
AND JULIET EILPERIN, WHO
REPORTED THIS STORY FOR THE
WASHINGTON POST.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Brown: JOSHUA REICHERT, LET
ME START WITH YOU.
TELL US MORE ABOUT THIS AREA OF
THE OCEAN AND WHY IS IT
IMPORTANT TO PROTECT?
>> WELL, IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
ISOLATED, REMOTE AREAS OF THE
OCEAN THAT'S UNDER THE
JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED
STATES, AND BECAUSE IT'S
ISOLATED AND HARD TO GET TO,
THESE ISLANDS HAVE BEEN
UNINHABITED ESSENTIALLY FOREVER.
SO THE AMOUNT OF OCEAN LIFE THAT
THEY CONTAIN IS ABSOLUTELY
REMARKABLE.
IT'S A STAGGERING ASSEMBLAGE OF
FISH, SEA BIRDS, MARINE MAMMALS
AND CRITICAL HABITAT NEEDED BY A
WIDE VARIETY OF SPECIES THAT
OCCUPY THESE AREAS.
>> Brown: I SUPPOSE IF IT'S SO
LITTLE REMOTE OR UNUSED WHY DOES
IT NEED PROTECTION?
>> THE WORLD IS SHRINKING AND
AREAS THAT WERE CONSIDERED
INACCESSIBLE 50 YEARS AGO, TODAY
ARE NOT THAT WAY.
I THINK OVER THE SHORT TO MEDIUM
TERM, THESE AREAS WILL BE OPENED
UP AND THEY WILL NOT BE NEARLY
AS REMOTE AS THEY ARE TODAY.
FISHING VESSELS NOW ARE A PART
OF THESE WATERS ON A REGULAR
BASIS AND 50 YEARS AGO, THEY DID
NOT.
>> JULIET, WHAT CAN YOU TELL US
ABOUT THE PROCESS OF THIS
EXECUTIVE ACTION.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE ISSUE
STARTING WITH THE EXECUTIVE
ACTION, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
THE PRESIDENT HAS DONE FOR
DECADES UNDER THE ANTIQUITIES
ACT, THEY'VE HAD THE AUTHORITY
FOR 100 YEARS TO ESSENTIALLY
DESIGNATE LANDS FOR PROTECTION
OF WATERS WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL.
SO THAT'S NOTHING NEW.
WHAT IS INTERESTING IS PRESIDENT
OBAMA WHO USED THAT AUTHORITY 11
TIMES ALREADY TO PROTECT AREAS
ON LAND NEVER USED IT IN THE
OCEAN AND WHAT IT REFLECTS IS A
RENEWED FOCUS ON THIS DRIVEN BY
TWO MEMBERS OF HIS
ADMINISTRATION, JOHN PEDESTA HIS
COUNSELOR AND JOHN KERRY, BOTH
OF THEM WERE LOOKING FOR THE
PRESIDENT TO DO SOMETHING BIG
AND SYMBOLIC ON THIS ISSUE.
>> AND I REFER IN THE
INTRODUCTION TO SOME OPPOSITION
VOICED BY REPUBLICANS.
ARE THEY SEEING THIS DIFFERENTLY
FROM WHAT PRESIDENT BUSH DID?
>> THE QUESTION, I TALKED TO
CHAIRMAN HASTINGS ABOUT THIS,
AND ONE THING I ASKED IS SINCE
PRESIDENT BUSH ACTUALLY CREATED
THE INITIAL MONUMENT IN 2009, I
ASKED HIM WHETHER HE HAD VOICED
CONCERN THEN.
HE REPLIED THAT HE HAD NOT BEEN
ON THE NATURAL RESOURCES
COMMITTEE AT THAT POINT.
BUT THERE WAS VERY LITTLE OUTCRY
FROM CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS
WHEN PRESIDENT BUSH UNDERTOOK
SEVERAL STEPS TO DECLARE PARTS
OF THE OCEAN OFF LIMITS.
>> START WITH YOU, JOSHUA
REICHERT, WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO
DECLARE A WIDE SWATH OF OCEAN A
MONUMENT?
WHAT WILL NOT OR WHAT WILL
HAPPEN?
HOW DO YOU PROTECT OR DO THAT?
>> THE MANAGEMENT PLAN CREATED
FOR THESE AREAS, I THINK THE
ASSUMPTION HERE IS THAT ALL
EXTRACTIVE ACTIVITY WITHIN THE
PARAMETERS OF THESE MONUMENTS
WILL BE PROHIBITED.
SO THE PRODUCTION OF OIL AND
GAS, FISHING, DEEP SEA MINING,
THEY'RE AREAS THAT ARE DESIGNED
TO BE SET ASIDE AND, AS JULIET
THE ANTIQUITIES ACT
HAS BEEN USED BY PRESIDENTS OVER
THE PAST CENTURY TO PROTECT
AREAS LIKE THIS.
>> Brown: DO YOU KNOW HOW MUCH
THE PLAN IS ALREADY SET?
OR IS THIS WHAT HAPPENED OVER
THE NEXT PERIOD?
>> THIS PLAN IS NOT SET AND THEY
WILL HAVE TO WORK THROUGH IT.
THEY WILL GET SOME PUBLIC INPUT.
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS PARTIALLY
BECAUSE THI SOMETHING THAT
REALLY CAME TOGETHER IN RECENT
WEEKS IS THERE ISN'T A DETAILED
PLAN AND, ALSO, SINCE THE
PRESIDENT COULD DO THIS BY
THEMSELVES, THERE'S NO
DESIGNATED TIME FOR HOW LONG
THEY TAKE PUBLIC COMMENT BUT
CERTAINLY THEY WILL BE BASICALLY
WAITING TO HEAR FROM FOLKS OVER
THE NEXT COUPLE OF MONTHS.
>> AND I KNOW YOU REACHED OUT
FOR A REACTION FROM PEOPLE IN
THE FISHING INDUSTRY.
WHAT DID THEY HAVE TO SAY?
>> MEMBERS OF THE RECREATIONAL
FISHING INDUSTRY HAVE SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT THIS.
THEY RECEIVED AN EXEMPTION WHEN
THE MONUMENT WAS CREATED UNDER
PRESIDENT BUSH BECAUSE THEY
DON'T LIKE THE PRECEDENT OF
PROHIBITING SPORTS FISHING IN
ANY AREA AND THEY WILL BE
LOOKING TO KEEP THAT EXEMPTION
AND ARE A LITTLE CONCERNED ABOUT
IT.
WITHIN THE TUNA INDUSTRY WHICH
OPERATES IN THIS REGION HASN'T
BEEN PUBLIC ABOUT HOW THEY'LL
WEIGH IN BUT I'M QUITE CONFIDENT
THEY WILL EXPRESS THEIR
CONCERNS.
>> WHAT ABOUT HUE THIS PLAYS OUT
WITH OTHER COUNTRIES?
HOW DOES IT JIBE OR NOT JIBE
WITH WHAT OTHER COUNTRIES ARE
DOING?
WILL THERE BE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE U.S.'S RIGHTS IN AN AREA
LIKE THIS TO TAKE AN ACTION LIKE
THAT?
>> THIS IS ALL WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED
STATES, SO THERE WON'T BE
QUESTIONS LIKE THAT.
I THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING AND
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SEEING IN THE
COURSE OF THE PAST DECADE OR TWO
IS THE GROWING RECOGNITION OF
THE VALUE OF THE WORLD'S OCEANS
TO PEOPLE AND THE FACT THEY'RE
IN TROUBLE.
AND SO THAT THERE HAS BEEN MORE
EFFORT MADE OVER THE COURSE OF
THE PAST SEVERAL DECADES TO
PROTECT AREAS OF THE OCEAN THAN
HAS EVER BEEN MADE BEFORE.
THE DECISION BY A SITTING
PRESIDENT TO DESIGNATE AN AREA
AS A NATIONAL MONUMENT REQUIRES
THE BALANCING OF DIFFERENT KINDS
OF INTERESTS -- ECONOMIC,
BIOLOGICAL, CULTURAL,
AESTHETIC -- AND CLEARLY, IN
THIS CASE, TWO PRESIDENTS MADE A
DETERMINES THAT THE VALUE OF
THESE AREAS FAR TRANSCENDS THE
AMOUNT OF PROFIT THAT CAN BE
GOTTEN OUT OF THEM EVERY YEAR BY
COMMERCIAL FISHING.
>> Brown: DO YOU THINK THERE
MIGHT BE MORE TO COME HERE IN
TERMS OF MORE ACTIONS LIKE THIS,
SPECIFICALLY IN THE OCEANS?
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT --
>> RIGHT, I THINK THAT'S AN
INTRIGUING PART OF WHAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID IN HIS
VIDEO TODAY.
HE TALKED ABOUT THE IDEA HE
WOULD USE THIS AUTHORITY IN THE
FUTURE.
SO I THINK WE COULD EXPECT THAT
THERE WOULD BE FURTHER ACTION,
AND IT ALSO WAS INTERESTING
THAT, WHETHER YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT OR HIS
DEPUTIES, THEY WERE EMPHASIZING
THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF THE OCEAN
AND ARGUING THERE WAS IN FACT
MORE ECONOMIC BENEFIT BY PUTTING
PART OFF LIMITS SO I THINK WE'LL
SEE THEM USING THAT IN SELECTED
INCIDENCES.
>> Brown: ARE YOU EXPECTING TO
SEE MORE?
>> WE ARE.
WE HAVE BEEN TRYING TO OVER THE
COURSE OF THE PAST FIVE OR SIX
YEARS TO ENCOURAGE THE
GOVERNMENTS, THAT AROUS
GOVERNMENTS, THE UNITED STATES
AND OTHERS, TO CONSTRUCT THE
FIRST GENERATION OF THE WORLD'S
GREAT MARINE PARKS SIMILAR TO
WHAT WAS DONE ON LAND.
>> Brown: AND THERE IS THIS
COMMENT PERIOD COMING, SO
ANYBODY IN INDUSTRY OUTSIDE OR
IN, THIS MAY CHANGE A BIT.
THAT'S ONE OF THE INTERESTING
THINGS THE COMMERCE AND INTERIOR
DEPARTMENTS WILL PRESUMABLY BE
HOLDER HEARINGS AND HEARING FROM
FOLKS AND CAN GO 200 MILES FROM
SHORE OR PAIR BACK.
SO WE'LL BE WATCHING IN THE
WEEKS AND MONTHS TO GO.
>> JOSHUA REICHERT AND JULIET
EIPLERIN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IT'S HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION SEASON, AND ONE OF
THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST SCHOOL
DISTRICTS IS CELEBRATING THE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF DOZENS OF
STUDENTS WHO'VE HAD A
PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT TIME
EARNING A DIPLOMA.
THEY'VE ALL BEEN HOMELESS, WHICH
DRASTICALLY INCREASES THE
LIKELIHOOD OF DROPPING OUT.
BUT AS DAVID NAZAR OF P.B.S. SO-
CAL EINORT
TO HELP THOSE STUDENTS GRADUATE
HAS BEEN PAYING OFF.
IT'S THE LATEST REPORT FOR OUR
"AMERICAN GRADUATE PROJECT," A
PUBLIC MEDIA INITIATIVE FUNDED
BY THE CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING.
>> Reporter: NORA PEREZ JUST
GRADUATED FROM ROYBAL LEARNING
CENTER, A HIGH SCHOOL IN LOS
ANGELES.
THOSE FOUR YEARS CAN BE AN
UPHILL BATTLE FOR MANY STUDENTS
BUT NORA FACED A MOUNTAIN OF
CHALLENGES.
THIS IS WHAT SHE CALLED HOME
DURING HIGH SCHOOL.
THE BACK OF A CAR, PARKED ON A
CITY STREET.
IT'S WHERE NORA SLEPT AND ATE,
AND STUDIED AFTER SCHOOL.
>> YOU DON'T EVEN HAVE YOUR OWN
ROOM, YOU DON'T HAVE YOUR OWN
BED, YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW WHERE
TO SHOWER, AND IT WAS REALLY
DIFFICULT.
IT WAS REALLY DIFFICULT AND IT
BRINGS TEARS TO MY EYE BECAUSE
GOING THROUGH ALL THOSE MOMENTS,
ALL THOSE COLD NIGHTS THAT I
LOOKED AT MY PARENTS AND SAW
THEIR PAIN IN THEIR FACE.
>> Reporter: THE DIFFICULT ROAD
FOR NORA BEGAN DURING HER
FRESHMAN YEAR, AFTER HER FATHER
LOST HIS JOB AND THEN THE FAMILY
LOST ITS HOUSE.
>> AT THAT POINT I THOUGHT
EVERYTHING WAS FALLING APART
COMPLETELY AND I WAS LOSING
EVERYTHING THAT I HAD.
IT WAS JUST TOO MUCH PAIN AT
THAT POINT AND I FELT LIKE
GIVING UP.
>> Reporter: THAT PAIN MOTIVATED
NORA TO LOOK FOR HELP AND SHE
FOUND IT IN THE DISTRICT'S
"HOMELESS EDUCATION PROGRAM,"
DESIGNED TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE
TO STUDENTS AND THEIR FAMILIES
WHO DON'T HAVE A PLACE TO LIVE.
>> ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS THE
PROGRAM ADDRESSES: ESSENTIALS
THE STUDENTS MAY HAVE HAD TO DO
WITHOUT.
>> HOMELESS STUDENTS AND
FAMILIES HAVE A LOT OF
INSTABILITY IN THEIR LIVES AND
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO
ACCESS SERVICES THAT THEY NEED.
>> Reporter: DEBRA DUARDO IS THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
DISTRICT'S STUDENT HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT AND
HELPS OVERSEE 14 WELLNESS
CENTERS BUILT OVER THE PAST FIVE
YEARS WITH $40 MILLION IN VOTER-
APPROVED BOND MONEY.
OFFICIALS HAVE RAISED 50 MILLION
DOLLARS TO BUILD EVEN MORE.
SOMETHING THEY SAY NO OTHER
DISTRICT IN THE COUNTRY HAS BEEN
ABLE TO DO.
>> Reporter: MANY OF OUR
STUDENTS OR FAMILIES BECOME
HOMELESS AS A RESULT OF MENTAL
ILLNESS, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
COMING BACK FROM WAR, SUBSTANCE
ABUSE SO WHEN YOU'RE A CHILD AND
DEALING WITH SOME OF THESE
ISSUES IN YOUR FAMILY OFTEN
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE SYMPTOMS OF
ANXIETY DEPRESSION, HAVEN'T BEEN
TAKEN TO A DOCTOR FOR REGULAR
CARE, LACKING DENTAL SERVICES.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE CENTERS
HELP ALL THE DISTRICT'S MOST AT-
RISK KIDS, A LOT OF EFFORT IS
SPENT ON THOSE WHO ARE HOMELESS,
AND THERE ARE MANY OF THEM:
CALIFORNIA'S HOMELESS POPULATION
IS THE HIGHEST IN THE COUNTRY BY
FAR.
LAST YEAR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
ESTIMATED THERE WERE ABOUT
137,000 HOMELESS PEOPLE LIVING
HERE.
THE LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT ALONE HAS IDENTIFIED
15,000 CHILDREN WITHIN ITS
BOUNDARIES WHO DON'T HAVE A
REGULAR PLACE TO STAY, BUT
OFFICIALS SAY THERE COULD BE
HUNDREDS OR POSSIBLY EVEN
THOUSANDS MORE WHO HAVEN'T COME
FORWARD.
IT CAN BE VERY DIFFICULT TO
SIMPLY GET THEM IN THE DOOR:
>> WE DON'T ALWAYS KNOW WHICH OF
OUR STUDENTS ARE HOMELESS
BECAUSE THEY AREN'T ALWAYS
FORTHCOMING WITH THAT
INFORMATION.
THERE'S A BIG STIGMA, THEY'RE
EMBARRASSED, THEY FEEL
HUMILIATED AND SO EVEN IF THEY
NEED SERVICES OR THERE'S ACCESS
TO SERVICES, SOMETIMES WE DON'T
KNOW ABOUT IT, IF THEY'RE NOT
WILLING TO SHARE THAT
INFORMATION.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO THE
STIGMA OF HOMELESSNESS, MANY
STUDENTS FEAR THE INTAKE PROCESS
BECAUSE OF THEIR IMMIGRATION
STATUS.
THE DISTRICT IS NEARLY 80%
HISPANIC, AND THE SCHOOL SYSTEM
SAYS IT HAS THE HIGHEST
PERCENTAGE OF IMMIGRANT FAMILIES
AND UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS IN THE
COUNTRY.
NORA WAS ONE OF THEM.
>> I AM UNDOCUMENTED.
I WASN'T BORN HERE, I WAS BORN
IN MEXICO AND I WAS BORN AND
RAISED UNTIL I WAS EIGHT AND
THEN I CAME HERE.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER
COMPLICATION IN THIS EFFORT IS
THE SHEER SIZE OF THE DISTRICT.
IT COVERS MORE THAN 200 SQUARE
MILES OF THE LOS ANGELES METRO
AREA, WITH STUDENTS SCATTERED
FROM THE SAN FERNANDO VALLEY TO
THE NORTH, TO SAN PEDRO IN THE
SOUTH AND FROM DOWNTOWN'S SKID
ROW TO THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
THAT'S WHY A BIG PART OF THE
HOMELESS EDUCATION PROGRAM'S
PHILOSOPHY IS TO REACH THE KIDS
WHERE THEY ARE.
NANCY GUTIERREZ, THE PROGRAM'S
COORDINATOR, SPENDS A LOT OF
TIME ON SKID ROW.
>> WE WANT TO EMPOWER THEM WITH
THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES AS ANY
OTHER STUDENT TO BE ABLE TO
BREAK THE CYCLE OF EXTREME
POVERTY THEY'RE FACING.
>> Reporter: GUTIERREZ'S
PROGRAM, LIKE ALL THOSE
NATIONWIDE, DOES RECEIVE FEDERAL
FUNDING UNDER THE "MCKINNEY-
VENTO HOMELESS ASSISTANCE ACT"
TO ADDRESS PERVASIVE ISSUES
HOMELESS STUDENTS FACE, LIKE
ENROLLMENT DELAYS DUE TO A LACK
OF DOCUMENTATION.
BUT IT'S NOT NEARLY ENOUGH.
>> SOME OF THE BARRIERS THAT OUR
STUDENTS EXPERIENCE RANGE FROM
TO NOT HAVING SCHOOL
SUPPLIES, THE BASIC NEEDS THAT
THESE STUDENTS DON'T HAVE, THEY
SOMETIMES DON'T HAVE A
TOOTHBRUSH, TOOTHPASTE, A
WASHCLOTH TO WASH THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: ALL THOSE THINGS
CAN GET EXPENSIVE, AND THAT'S
WHY THE PROGRAM HAS MA
PARTNERS:
WE HAVE FORMED PARTNERSHIPS WITH
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES TO HAVE
MATCHING FUNDS AND WE WORK WITH
INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATIONS, EVEN
BANKS AND INDIVIDUALS IN THE
COMMUNITY TO HAVE GRANTS AND
SPONSORSHIPS SO THAT WE CAN MAKE
SURE WE GET ALSO PRIVATE FUNDS
SO THAT WE CAN PROVIDE ALL OFVIE
AS YOU CAN IMAGINE, EVEN
PROVIDING A BACKPACK TO 15,000
STUDENTS IS A HUGE COST.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE
ORGANIZATIONS THE DISTRICT WORKS
WITH, IS "SCHOOL ON WHEELS," A
NON-PROFIT LEARNING CENTER IN
DOWNTOWN L.A., WHICH PROVIDES
TUTORING AND MENTORING TO KIDS
IN KINDERGARTEN THROUGH 12TH
GRADE.
>> OUR GOAL IS TO FIND THE GAPS
IN THE EDUCATION OF HOMELESS
STUDENTS AND FILL IN THOSE GAPS,
HELP THOSE STUDENTS CATCH UP.
>> Reporter: MATT RAAB IS THE
GROUP'S PROGRAM DIRECTOR.
HE SAYS "SCHOOL ON WHEELS" HAS
NEARLY 2,000 VOLUNTEERS WHO
CRISSCROSS SOME OF THE CITY'S
W N TO FIND
CHILDREN LIVING IN MOTELS,
SHELTERS, OR ON THE STREET.
THEY EITHER TEACH THE KIDS
THERE, OR BRING THEM BACK HERE,
TO THE SKID ROW CENTER.
>> Reporter: IT'S DIFFICULT
BECAUSE EVERY TIME THERE'S A NEW
STUDENT THAT WE MATCH UP WITH A
VOLUNTEER TUTOR AND WE SEE WHAT
WE CAN DO FOR THOSE STUDENTS,
AND WE SEE THEM SUCCEED IN
SCHOOL, THERE'S ANOTHER FAMILY
RIGHT BEHIND THEM THAT NEEDS OUR
HELP AND THAT'S WHAT WE'VE BEEN
SEEING OVER THE YEARS.
IT'S JUST A CONSTANT STEADY
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF
HOMELESS FAMILIES AND THAT MAKES
OUR WORK THAT MUCH MORE
CHALLENGING.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER CHALLENGE
THE DISTRICT FACES: HELPING
HOMELESS STUDENTS PAY FOR THE
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION THEY MAY
NEED TO GET TO SCHOOL.
THE DISTRICT GETS SOME MONEY
UNDER THE MCKINNEY VENTO ACT,
AND USES SOME ITS OWN MONEY TO
PAY FOR CITY BUS PASSES, BUT
MANY OF ITS OWN EMPLOYEES PITCH-
IN TOO.
SERVICES LIKE THAT HAVE HELPED
100 HOMELESS STUDENTS, INCLUDING
NORA, EARN A DIPLOMA THIS YEAR.
AND DISTRICT OFFICIALS SAY
THEY'RE PROUD TO HAVE ONE OF THE
HIGHEST HOMELESS STUDENT
GRADUATION RATES IN THE COUNTRY.
>> WE SEE MANY OF OUR STUDENTS
GOING ON TO COLLEGE FOUR YEAR
UNIVERSITIES GETTING
SCHOLARSHIPS, BECAUSE OF THE
SERVICES THEY ARE GETTING EARLY
ON.
>> Reporter: AND EVEN THOUGH
NORA PEREZ ISN'T ABLE TO ENROLL
IN COLLEGE RIGHT NOW, SHE IS
DETERMINED SHE WILL EVENTUALLY
EARN A UNIVERSITY DIPLOMA TOO,
AND ONE DAY BECOME AN F.B.I.
AGENT.
>> WHEN EVERY TIME I TRY TO GIVE
UP I THINK ABOUT IT AND I'M LIKE
YOU KWHING
TO GIVE UP NOW THAT I'VE
ACCOMPLISHED SO MANY THINGS, I'M
NOT GOING TO GIVE UP.
>> Reporter: AND IT MAY SOON BE
A LITTLE EASIER.
IN JUST THE PAST FEW WEEKS, NORA
AND HER FAMILY HAVE FINALLY
FOUND AN APARTMENT THEY CAN ALL
MOVE INTO.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, 40
YEARS AFTER PRESIDENT NIXON LEFT
OFFICE IN DISGRACE, ANOTHER LOOK
AT THAT TUMULTUOUS PERIOD AND
MR. NIXON'S POST-PRESIDENTIAL
LIFE.
JUDY WOODRUFF RECORDED THIS BOOK
CONVERSATION EARLIER.
>> Woodruff: THAT PERSPECTIVE
COMES FROM VETERAN JOURNALIST
ELIZABETH DREW, THE LONG-TIME
WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT FOR THE
"NEW YORKER" MAGAZINE.
IN 1974 SHE WROTE THE BOOK
"WASHINGTON JOURNAL," REPORTING
WATER GATE AND RICHARD NIXON'S
DOWNFALL WHICH CAPTURED THE
PLAYERS AND THE POLITICAL
UPHEAVAL TO HAVE THE SCANDAL AS
IT UNFOLDED.
THE BOOK WAS RERELEASED THIS
MOVEMENT TO MARK THE 40t
40th ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT
NIXON'S RESIGNATION.
ELIZABETH DREW HAS WRITTEN AN
AFTERWARD WHICH LOOKS AT THE MAN
AND HIS PATH TO POLITICAL
REHABILITATION AND JOINS ME NOW.
ELIZABETH DREW, GOOD TO SEE YOU
AGAIN.
>> NICE TO SEE YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: SO THE ORIGINAL
BOOK STANDS AS A CLASSIC OF
AMERICAN POLITICAL JOURNALISM,
THE STORY YOU TELL.
WHY PUT IT OUT AGAIN?
>> IT COINCIDES WITH THE
ANNIVERSARY, BUT IT WAS OUT OFPY
THIS WAS A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE
KEPT ALIVE.
MY GREAT MENTOR JOHN GARVIN
ADVISED I HAD A DREAM
ASSIGNMENT --
>> Woodruff: IN 1970.
LATE IN 1973 HE SAID, WHAT DO
YOU THINK YOU'LL WRITE ABOUT?
I SAID I THING WE'LL CHANGE
VICE PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENTS
IN A YEAR.
SO THIS WAS A WAY OUT THOUGHT.
HSO I KEPT A JOURNAL.
HE SAID, 40 YEARS NOW, PEOPLE
CAN SAY, SO THAT'S WHAT IT WAS
LIKE.
SO YOU CAN CAPTURE THAT
EXTRAORDINARY PERIOD.
>> Woodruff: EVERY BIT OF IT
CAPTURES WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
LAST DAYS WHEN PRESIDENT NIXON
RESIGNED.
HE LIVED ANOTHER 20 YEARS.
YOU WRITE ABOUT HOW HE WAS
DETERMINED THE REDEEM HIMSELF.
>> I DON'T THAT VERY MANY PEOPLE
WOULD HAVE SURVIVED THE CRUSHING
BLOW THAT HE SUFFERED.
HE WORKED ALL THOSE YEARS TO BE
PRESIDENT, FINALLY GOT THERE AND
HE RUINED IT.
HE KIND OF KNEW HE WOULD.
HE SAYS IN THERE YOU LEARN EARLY
HOW TO BE TOUGH AND FIGHT BACK
AND HE WAS ALWAYS IN COMBAT.
HE ALWAYS THOUGHT PEOPLE WERE
LOOKING DOWN ON HIM AND HE HAD
TO SHOW THEM AND FIGHT.
WELL, HE WASN'T GOING TO GIVE IN
AGAIN.
SO HE MADE A PLAN, A SECRET PLAN
CALLED "THE WIZARD" AND IT WAS
HOW HE WAS GOING TO GET
RESPECTABILITY BACK.
>> Woodruff: WHICH WAS
ENTIRELY IN CHARACTER FOR HIM TO
TRY TO DO THAT, TO TRY TO MAKE A
COMEBACK.
>> HE SAYS A MAN IS NEVER
DEFEATED UNLESS HE QUITS.
I AM NOT A QUITTER, AND HE NEVER
BECAUSE QUITTER AND HE WASN'T
GOING TO BE A QUITTER THEN.
IT WAS VERY INNATE TO HIM.
BUT HE HAD A LONG WAY TO GO TO
COME BACK FROM THIS GREAT
DISGRACE.
>> Woodruff: AT A COUPLE OF
POINTS YOU WRITE, SOMETIMES IT
SEEMED NIXON NEVER HAD A CHANCE.
HE WAS TRAPPED IN A CHARACTER
THAT WOULDN'T PERMIT HIM TO BE
CONTENT.
YOU WRITE ONE CAN ALMOST
EMPATHIZE WITH A MAN A PRISONER
OF HIS OWN RESENTMENTS,
SUSPICIONS AND HAY TREADS.
DID YOU ALMOST EMPATHIZE WITH
THIS?
>> YES, THANK YOU FOR THAT
QUOTE.
THAT WAS A GOOD ONE TO PICK.
HE WAS TRAPPED IN HIS OWN
CHARACTER FROM A VERY YOUNG AGE.
HE DIDN'T HAVE FRIENDS.
HE FELT THE OTHER BOYS WERE
STRONGER THAN HE WAS SO HE WENT
OUT FOR FOOTBALL JUST TO SHOWTH.
HE WAS NOT INVITED INTO RIGHT
CLUBS, SO HE WAS FILLED WITH
RESENTMENTS AND HE WAS A LONER.
IT'S A VERY STRANGE FIGURE TO GO
INTO POLITICS MUCH LESS SUCCEED
AT THE LEVEL HE DID BECAUSE HE
DIDN'T HAVE FRIENDS, AND HE
DIDN'T LIKE PEOPLE IN PARTICULAR
AND PEOPLE DIDN'T LIKE HIM, BUT
HE KEPT ON AND WAS NOT GOING TO
QUIT NOW.
>> Woodruff: DID HE SUCCEED IN
REDEEMING HIMSELF IN ANY REGARD?
>> I THINK IN HIS OWN TERMS,
YES, HE DID.
YOU WOULD HAVE LOVED HIS
FUNERAL, JUDY.
HE HAD AN -- YOU HAD AN ACTING
PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT FORD WAS
THERE, FOUR EX-PRESIDENTS WERE
THERE, ALL SORTS OF STATESMEN, A
LOT OF SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN.
WHEY WOULD HAVE THOUGHT, OKAY, I
WON, I SHOWED THEM.
HE WORKED VERY HARD AT THIS
SEVERAL YEARS.
IT WAS FUNNY ABOUT THE WAYS HE
OR MAKE BLAILD PEOPLE ORPEOPLE
WHATEVER IT IS, BUT IN HIS OWN
TERMS, YES, HE GOT IT BACK.
IS HE A NATIONAL HERO NOW?
I DON'T THINK SO.
WE WOULD BE AMAZED TO FIND HE'S
A CULT FIGURE NOW.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE
GENERATIONS WHO DON'T KNOW WHAT
WATERGATE WAS, WHAT WAS IT?
>> IT WAS A CONSTITUTIONAL
CRISIS.
WAS THE PRESIDENT ACCOUNTABLE TO
CONGRESS, TO THE COURTS?
NIXON WAS TRYING NOT TO BE BUT
NOT OBEYING A C TO
TURN OVER THE TAPES, BY NOT
OBEYING SUBPOENAS ASKING FOR
INFORMATION FROM THE CONGRESS.
AND THE HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE DREW UP THREE ARTICLES
OF IMPEACHMENT WE WOULD HAVE
PASSED HAD THERE NOT BEEN
ANOTHER TAPE FOUND THAT REALLY
INCRIMINATED HIM.
IT WAS VERY SCARY.
I REALIZED I WROTE ABOUT IT AT
THE TIME BUT I DIDN'T FOCUS ON
THE SUBJECT.
THE PARTY IN POWER DECIDED WHO
THEY DID OR DIDN'T WANT HIM TO
RUN AGAINST.
I CAN SEE HIM IN 1972, AND HE
CONFUSED OPPONENTS WITH ENEMIES.
HE HAD THEM TAILED, WIRE TAPPED.
THE BREAK-IN TO THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE WAS JUST ONE OF MANY,
MANY THINGS.
SO SOME HILARIOUS BUT A VERY
SCARY TIME.
>> Woodruff: 40 YEARS LATER,
RIVETING, "WASHINGTON JOURNAL"
REPORTING WATERGATE AND RICHARD
NIXON'S DOWNFALL.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A U.S. SPECIAL FORCES TEAM HAS
CAPTURED THE ALLEGED RINGLEADER
OF THE BENGHAZI ATTACKS THAT
KILLED THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO
LIBYA AND THREE OTHER AMERICANS.
THERE WERE FURTHER SIGNS
SECTARIAN STRIFE IS TAKING HOLD
IN IRAQ, WITH REPRISAL KILLINGS
REACHING THE CAPITAL.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA ACTED TO
CREATE THE WORLD'S LARGEST OCEAN
PRESERVE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, WE UPDATE THE MYSTERY OF
THOSE DISAPPEARING SEA STARS,
WHAT YOU MIGHT KNOW AS STARFISH.
ON THE WEST COAST, CITIZENS AND
SCIENTISTS HAVE OBSERVED A
DRAMATIC DIE-OFF OF THE ANIMAL,
RAISING CONCERNS ABOUT LOCAL
EXTINCTION OF SOME SPECIES.
NOW RESEARCHERS MAY BE ZEROING
IN ON A LINK BETWEEN WARMING
WATERS AND THE RISING BODY
COUNT.
FIND THAT STORY FROM OUR PUBLIC
MEDIA PARTNERS "EARTHFIX" ON OUR
SCIENCE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, RECALL-PLAGUED
GENERAL MOTORS EXECUTIVES
TESTIFY IN CONGRESS.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT